on this is five minutes friday on attention sharpening tools, part two of two. On last week's five minute friday, I introduced the concept that mindfulness training for a formal meditation practice are fundamentally nothing more than honing your attentional capacity. No, I talked about two tools, the guided meditation app, headspace and the brain sensing headband muse that I used together as a part of my daily meditation ritual. Going back now many years at the end of the episode, I disclosed that the coronavirus pandemic unexpectedly led to a recent dramatic acceleration in my commitment to deliberate mindfulness, as well as a corresponding dramatic acceleration in attentional benefits. Let's dig into that. Now, after a few months of covid lockdown, I was in an emotionally challenging period. I'm a highly social person. I love hanging out with groups of friends and I even love going into the office to spend time with my witty and fascinating colleagues. So while I've been meditating daily four years, but typically for only up to 10 minutes a day, I had a sense that I needed to deepen my meditation practice further to confront these challenging lockdown related emotions. Thus, for several months now, along with being sure to use my muse brainwave feedback headband every single day while digesting a headspace guided meditation. I've also been gradually lengthening my meditation sessions more specifically in the summer of 2020 I began using the Headspace 3 65 pack, which was the original 365 day series of meditations that featured in the app when it was first launched many years ago, I tackled the 3 65 pack in part because I had already completed every other pack of meditations that are available in the Headspace app, but also because I knew it would force me to after six years of daily mindfulness training, finally extend the length of my daily sessions. The Headspace 3 65 pack starts with 10 10 minute sessions, Then goes on to 15, 15 minute sessions And then for the remaining 340 days in the 365 day pack, You do 20 minute long sessions. Now I don't have time every single day or More accurately, I don't yet make time every single day for 20 minutes of meditation. So I do 1 20 minute session from the 3 65 pack on about half of days and for the sake of maintaining my daily ritual of doing at least some structured mindfulness training on the other half of days, I do the quote unquote today's meditation from the Headspace app Home Screen, Which I then typically set for three or 5 or At most a 10 minute session. It's on the days where I do the 20 minute meditation, however, that I've noticed the dramatic acceleration in benefits. Having noticed that I am now committed to three days a week where I do a particularly long session. The guided headspace 365 session always ends after 20 minutes, but I set the muse headband to continue sensing my brainwaves for unguided meditation, simply bringing my attention back to my breath whenever it drifts away For one minute longer each week. So two weeks ago I was doing a 28 minute long session, three days a week. Last week I was doing 29 minute sessions, three days a week and this week I did three half hour sessions over the course of the week, I'm going to continue experimenting with adding another minute each week until I noticed that the benefits start to plateau. Maybe that will be around the 45 minute mark or something like that. But I really don't know. The point is that by doing these longer sessions, even after years of meditating without missing a day, I've noticed a huge impact on my attention span challenges suddenly seem trivial and manageable. I fly through my to do list during the day. I don't waste time, I don't become consumed by distracting or unhelpful thoughts or by irrelevant events that may or may not be happening on the internet. I'm present with my senses in my body at the moment, I'm more creative, I'm more confident and I'm even more patient, more empathetic and loving it really, it really has been a journey. So as you might now guess I highly recommend training your attention. I believe that it can have huge benefits on your data science career and more generally in your life. I recommend starting small with training your attention with a structured guided mindfulness practice but block off the time on your calendar for it in advance or put it as a daily to do item that Rikers on your phone consistency is the key to habit formation in the beginning, not the duration of the sessions. Initially you could start with one minute meditations every day for a week and then maybe you just stay there. But if a minute starts to feel easy then in the second week go up to two minutes every day and so on these small incremental changes and eventually accumulate too long and hugely beneficial sessions. Although even those short sessions in the very beginning are likely to prove helpful. Whenever you do finish a session, reward yourself have a piece of chocolate or have a cup of coffee whatever you find intrinsically satisfying. By rewarding yourself. You'll reinforce the behavior and it will become easier and easier to maintain a daily mindfulness practice, which will gradually train your attention more and more as I detailed already. I've been using headspace and muse for many years now. I do think there are outstanding and I highly recommend them. But I don't have any paid sponsorships or anything like that. I'm not partial to those two tools for any reason other than my personal positive experience with them. Other apps that I've experimented with more briefly or have been recommended to me that seemed to be really great are Sam Harris is waking up 10 happier calm and if you're looking for something completely free, you can check out insight timer. All right, that's it. Those are my tips and tools for sharpening your attention happy trails and catch you next week for another episode of five minute Friday.