Welcome to the machine learning crash course. My name is Peter Nor big and when I joined Google in 2001, my title was director of machine learning because I knew then that machine learning would be a valuable tool to help engineers at Google and everywhere else makes sense of their data. I didn't quite anticipate then how widespread the tools would become and how much demand there would be for engineers who are skilled at using them. This course is designed to set you along the path to becoming a skilled practitioner of the art. What you learn here will allow you as a software engineer to do three things better. First, it gives you a tool to reduce the time you spend programming. Suppose I wanted to write a program to correct spelling errors. I could make my way through lots of examples and rules of thumb like I before E. Except after C. And after weeks of hard work come up with a reasonable program. Or I could use an off the shelf machine learning tool, feed it some examples and get a more reliable program in a small fraction of the time. Second it will allow you to customize your products, making them better for specific groups of people. Suppose I produced my english spelling corrector by writing code by hand and was so successful that I wanted to have versions in the 100 most popular languages. I would have to start almost from scratch for each language and would take years of effort. But if I built it using machine learning then moving to another language to a first approximation means just collecting data in that language and feeding it into the exact same machine learning model. And third machine learning lets you solve problems that you as a programmer have no idea how to do by hand as a human being. I have the ability to recognize my friends faces and understand their speech. But I do all of this subconsciously. So if you asked me to write down a program to do it, I'd be completely baffled. But these are tasks that machine learning algorithms do very well. I don't need to tell the algorithm what to do. I only need to show the algorithm lots of examples and from that this task can be solved now. Besides these three practical reasons for mastering machine learning, there's a philosophical reason machine learning changes the way you think about a problem. Software engineers are trained to think logically and mathematically. We use assertions to prove properties of our program. Are correct. With machine learning. The focus shifts from a mathematical science to a natural science. We're making observations about an uncertain world running experiments and using statistics, not logic, to analyze the results of the experiment. The ability to think like a scientist will expand your horizons and open up new areas that you couldn't explore it without it. So enjoy the journey and happy exploring.on this is five minutes friday on attention sharpening tools, part two of two. On last week's five minute friday, I introduced the concept that mindfulness training for a formal meditation practice are fundamentally nothing more than honing your attentional capacity. No, I talked about two tools, the guided meditation app, headspace and the brain sensing headband muse that I used together as a part of my daily meditation ritual. Going back now many years at the end of the episode, I disclosed that the coronavirus pandemic unexpectedly led to a recent dramatic acceleration in my commitment to deliberate mindfulness, as well as a corresponding dramatic acceleration in attentional benefits. Let's dig into that. Now, after a few months of covid lockdown, I was in an emotionally challenging period. I'm a highly social person. I love hanging out with groups of friends and I even love going into the office to spend time with my witty and fascinating colleagues. So while I've been meditating daily four years, but typically for only up to 10 minutes a day, I had a sense that I needed to deepen my meditation practice further to confront these challenging lockdown related emotions. Thus, for several months now, along with being sure to use my muse brainwave feedback headband every single day while digesting a headspace guided meditation. I've also been gradually lengthening my meditation sessions more specifically in the summer of 2020 I began using the Headspace 3 65 pack, which was the original 365 day series of meditations that featured in the app when it was first launched many years ago, I tackled the 3 65 pack in part because I had already completed every other pack of meditations that are available in the Headspace app, but also because I knew it would force me to after six years of daily mindfulness training, finally extend the length of my daily sessions. The Headspace 3 65 pack starts with 10 10 minute sessions, Then goes on to 15, 15 minute sessions And then for the remaining 340 days in the 365 day pack, You do 20 minute long sessions. Now I don't have time every single day or More accurately, I don't yet make time every single day for 20 minutes of meditation. So I do 1 20 minute session from the 3 65 pack on about half of days and for the sake of maintaining my daily ritual of doing at least some structured mindfulness training on the other half of days, I do the quote unquote today's meditation from the Headspace app Home Screen, Which I then typically set for three or 5 or At most a 10 minute session. It's on the days where I do the 20 minute meditation, however, that I've noticed the dramatic acceleration in benefits. Having noticed that I am now committed to three days a week where I do a particularly long session. The guided headspace 365 session always ends after 20 minutes, but I set the muse headband to continue sensing my brainwaves for unguided meditation, simply bringing my attention back to my breath whenever it drifts away For one minute longer each week. So two weeks ago I was doing a 28 minute long session, three days a week. Last week I was doing 29 minute sessions, three days a week and this week I did three half hour sessions over the course of the week, I'm going to continue experimenting with adding another minute each week until I noticed that the benefits start to plateau. Maybe that will be around the 45 minute mark or something like that. But I really don't know. The point is that by doing these longer sessions, even after years of meditating without missing a day, I've noticed a huge impact on my attention span challenges suddenly seem trivial and manageable. I fly through my to do list during the day. I don't waste time, I don't become consumed by distracting or unhelpful thoughts or by irrelevant events that may or may not be happening on the internet. I'm present with my senses in my body at the moment, I'm more creative, I'm more confident and I'm even more patient, more empathetic and loving it really, it really has been a journey. So as you might now guess I highly recommend training your attention. I believe that it can have huge benefits on your data science career and more generally in your life. I recommend starting small with training your attention with a structured guided mindfulness practice but block off the time on your calendar for it in advance or put it as a daily to do item that Rikers on your phone consistency is the key to habit formation in the beginning, not the duration of the sessions. Initially you could start with one minute meditations every day for a week and then maybe you just stay there. But if a minute starts to feel easy then in the second week go up to two minutes every day and so on these small incremental changes and eventually accumulate too long and hugely beneficial sessions. Although even those short sessions in the very beginning are likely to prove helpful. Whenever you do finish a session, reward yourself have a piece of chocolate or have a cup of coffee whatever you find intrinsically satisfying. By rewarding yourself. You'll reinforce the behavior and it will become easier and easier to maintain a daily mindfulness practice, which will gradually train your attention more and more as I detailed already. I've been using headspace and muse for many years now. I do think there are outstanding and I highly recommend them. But I don't have any paid sponsorships or anything like that. I'm not partial to those two tools for any reason other than my personal positive experience with them. Other apps that I've experimented with more briefly or have been recommended to me that seemed to be really great are Sam Harris is waking up 10 happier calm and if you're looking for something completely free, you can check out insight timer. All right, that's it. Those are my tips and tools for sharpening your attention happy trails and catch you next week for another episode of five minute Friday.